# 3

3.1 Which of the following are recognized process flow types?

A. Concurrent process flow
B. Iterative process flow
C. Linear process flow
D. Spiral process flow
E. both a and c

3.5  Which of these are standards for assessing software processes?

A. SEI
B. SPICE
C. ISO 9000
D. ISO 9001
E. both b and d

# 4

4.3 Evolutionary software process models

A. Are iterative in nature.
B. Can easily accommodate product requirements changes.
C. Do not generally produce throwaway systems.
D. All of the above.

4.6 The concurrent development model is

A. Another name for concurrent engineering.
B. Defines events that trigger engineering activity state transitions.
C. Only used for development of parallel or distributed systems.
D. Used whenever a large number of change requests are anticipated.
E. Both a and b

4.8 The formal methods model of software development makes use of mathematical methods to

A. Define the specification for computer-based systems.
B. Develop defect free computer-based systems.
C. Verify the correctness of computer-based systems.
D. All of the above.

4.11 Which of these are objectives of Team Software Process?

A. Accelerate software process improvement
B. Allow better time management by highly trained professionals
C. Build self-directed software teams
D. Show managers how to reduce costs and sustain quality
E. Both b and c

# 5

5.3 How do you create agile processes to manage unpredictability?

A. Requirements gathering must be conducted very carefully
B. Risk analysis must be conducted before planning takes place
C. Software increments must be delivered in short time periods
D. Software processes must adapt to changes incrementally
E. Both c and d

5.10 Agile Modeling (AM) provides guidance to practitioner during which of these software tasks?

A. Analysis
B. Design
C. Coding
D. Testing
E. Both a and b

# 6

6.5 Which of the following can contribute to team toxicity?

A. Frenzied work atmosphere
B. Inadequate budget
~~C. Poorly coordinated software process~~
D. Unclear definition of team roles
E. a, b, d

6.12 Which of these factors complicate decision-making by global software teams

A. Complexity of problem
B. Different views of the problem
C. Law of unintended consequences
D. Risk associated with decision
E. All of the above.

# 8

8.2 During project inception the intent of the of the tasks are to determine

A. basic problem understanding
B. nature of the solution needed
C. people who want a solution
D. none of the above
E. a, b, c

8.3 Three things that make requirements elicitation difficult are problems of

A. budgeting
B. scope
C. understanding
D. volatility
E. b, c, d

8.10 The work products produced during requirement elicitation will vary depending on the

A. size of the budget.
B. size of the product being built.
C. software process being used.
D. stakeholders needs.
E. both a and b

8.14 The result of the requirements engineering task is an analysis model that defines which of the following problem domain(s)?

A. information
B. functional
C. behavioral
D. all of the above

# 10

10.1 Which of the following should be considered as candidate objects in a problem space?

A. events
B. people
C. structures
D. all of the above

10.7 Class responsibilities are defined by

A. its attributes only
B. its collaborators
C. its operations only
D. both its attributes and operations

# 12

12.1 Which of the following are areas of concern in the design model?

A. architecture
B. data
C. interfaces
D. project scope
E. a, b, c

12.3 Which of these are characteristics of a good design?

A. exhibits strong coupling between its modules
B. implements all requirements in the analysis model
C. includes test cases for all components
D. provides a complete picture of the software
E. b and d

12.5 What types of abstraction are used in software design?

A. control
B. data
C. environmental
D. procedural
E. a, b, d

12.6 Which of the following can be used to represent the architectural design of a piece of software?

A. Dynamic models
B. Functional models
C. Structural models
D. All of the above

# 13

13.6 An architectural style encompasses which of the following elements?

A. constraints
B. set of components
C. semantic models
D. syntactic models
E. a, b, c

13.9 The criteria used to assess the quality of an architectural design should be based on system

A. accessibility
B. control
C. data
D. implementation
E. b and c

13.12 During process of modeling the system in context, systems that interact with the target system are represented as

A. Peer-level systems
B. Subordinate systems
C. Superordinate systems
D. Working systems
E. a, b, c

13.15 In the architecture trade-off analysis method the architectural style should be described using the

A. data flow view
B. module view
C. process view
D. user view
E. a, b, c

13.16 A useful technique for evaluating the overall complexity of a proposed architecture is to look at the component

A. cohesion
B. flow dependencies
C. sharing dependencies
D. size
E. b and c

# 14

14.3 In traditional software engineering modules must serve in which of the following roles?

A. Control component
B. Infrastructure component
C. Problem domain component
D. All of the above

14.9 In component design elaboration requires which of the following elements to be describe in detail?

A. Algorithms
B. Attributes
C. Interfaces
D. Operations
E. b, c, d

14.10 In component-level design persistent data sources refer to

A. Component libraries
B. Databases
C. Files
D. All of the above
E. b and c

14.14 Which of these constructs is used in structured programming?

A. branching
B. condition
C. repetition
D. sequence
E. b, c, d

14.20 In a reuse environment, library queries are often characterized using the ________ element of the 3C Model.

A. concept
B. content
C. context
D. all of the above

# 15

15.2 Which of the following interface design principles reduce the user's memory load?

A. define intuitive shortcuts
B. disclose information in a progressive fashion
C. establish meaningful defaults
D. provide an on-line tutorial
E. a, b, c

15.4 Interface consistency implies that

A. each application should have its own distinctive look and feel
B. input mechanisms remain the same throughout the application
C. navigational methods are context sensitive
D. visual information is organized according to a design standard
E. b and d

15.10 Which approach(es) to user task analysis can be useful in user interface design?

A. have users indicate their preferences on questionnaires
B. rely on the judgement of experienced programmers
C. study existing computer-based solutions
D. observe users performing tasks manually
E. c and d

15.16 Several common design issues surface for almost every user interface including

A. adaptive user profiles
B. error handling
C. resolution of graphics displays
D. system response time
E. b and d

15.18 Several usability measures can be collected while observing users interacting with a computer system including

A. down time for the application
B. number of user errors
C. software reliability
D. time spent looking at help materials
E. b and d

# 16

16.6 The concepts and techniques discussed for ___________ can be used in the conjunction with a pattern-based approach.

A. Architectural design
B. Component-level design
C. User interface design
D. All of the above

16.9 Which of the following problem types are used to label columns in a pattern organizing table?

A. Business
B. Context
C. Database
D. Infrastructure
E. c and d

16.14 WebApp design patterns can be classified by considering which of the dimensions listed below?

A. Aesthetics
B. Design focus
C. Granularity
D. Usability
E. b and c

16.15 Which of the following are levels of design focus that can be used to categorize WebApp patterns?

A. Behavioral patterns
B. Functional patterns
C. Layout patterns
D. Navigation patterns
E. b and d

16.16 Which of the levels of granularity that can be used to describe WebApp patterns?

A. Architectural patterns
B. Component patterns
C. Design patterns
D. Interactions patterns
E. a, b, c

# 17

2. Which of the following are design goals for every WebApp?

A. Simplicity
B. Consistency
C. Navigability
D. Visual appeal
E. All of the above.

5. Which of these are WebApp interaction mechanisms?

A. Graphic icons
B. Graphic images
C. Navigation menus
D. All of the above

8. Content design is conducted by

A. Copywriters and graphic designer
B. Web engineers
C. both a and b
D. none of the above

# 18

7 Which of the following are common MobileApp design mistakes.

A. Inconsistency
B. Interoperability
C. Lean design
D. Overdesigning
E. a and d

# 19

5. Which of the following are ISO 9126 software quality factors?

A. Functionality
B. Portability
C. Reliability
D. Visual appeal
E. a, b, c

14. Which of the following management decisions have the potential to impact software quality?

A. Estimation decisions
B. Risk-oriented decisions
C. Scheduling decisions
D. All of the above

15. The project plan should include explicit techniques for _______ and _______ management?

A. change
B. cost
C. error
D. quality
E. a and d

# 20

7. The level of review formality is determined by which of the following?

A. amount of preparation
B. reviewer follow-up
C. size of project budget
D. structure of review
E. a, b, d

8. An informal review may consist of which of the following?

A. casual meeting
B. desk check
C. inspection
D. pair programming
E. a and b

10. At the end of a formal technical review all attendees can decide to

A. accept the work product without modification
B. modify the work product and continue the review
C. reject the product due to stylistic discrepancies
D. reject the product due to severe errors
E. a and d

# 21

9. Software reliability problems can almost always be traced to

A. errors in accuracy
B. errors in design
C. errors in implementation
D. errors in operation
E. b and c

# 22

5. Which of the following strategic issues needs to be addressed in a successful software testing process?

A. conduct formal technical reviews prior to testing
B. specify requirements in a quantifiable manner
C. use independent test teams
D. wait till code is written prior to writing the test plan
E. a and b

6. Which of the following need to be assessed during unit testing?

A. algorithmic performance
B. code stability
C. error handling
D. execution paths
E. c and d

8. Top-down integration testing has as it's major advantage(s) that

A. low level modules never need testing
B. major decision points are tested early
C. no drivers need to be written
D. no stubs need to be written
E. b and c

10. Regression testing should be a normal part of integration testing because as a new module is added to the system new

A. control logic is invoked
B. data flow paths are established
C. drivers require testing
D. all of the above
E. a and b

25. Which of the following is an approach to debugging?

A. backtracking
B. brute force
C. cause elimination
D. code restructuring
E. a, b, c

# 23

2. Which of the following are characteristics of testable software?

A. observability
B. simplicity
C. stability
D. all of the above

5. What types of errors are missed by black-box testing and can be uncovered by white-box testing?

A. behavioral errors
B. logic errors
C. performance errors
D. typographical errors
E. b and d

12. Black-box testing attempts to find errors in which of the following categories

A. incorrect or missing functions
B. interface errors
C. performance errors
D. none of the above
E. a, b, c

# 24

5. Integration testing of object-oriented software can be accomplished by which of the following testing strategies?

A. Cluster testing
B. Glass-box testing
C. Thread-based testing
D. Use-based testing
E. a, c, d

# 25

5. As the WebApp architecture is constructed which types of testing are used as integration tests?

A. Component testing
B. Content testing
C. Navigation testing
D. Usability testing
E. both a and c

8. The overall strategy for interface testing is to uncover errors

A. in navigation semantics
B. in overall usabililty
C. related to specific interface mechanisms
D. both a and c

13. Which test case design technique(s) are appropriate for WebApp component-level testing?

A. Boundary value analysis
B. Equivalence partitioning
C. Path testing
D. All of the above

# 26

7. Which of the following are reasons for testing in the wild?

A. Assessing the impact of production environments
B. Failing to create test cases
C. Not understanding user demographics
D. Testing for variable performance on user devices
E. both a and d

14. Which of the following are issues that make real-time testing difficult?

A. Limited device processing capacity
B. Power limitations on the device
C. Unique mobile network infrastructures
D. All of the above

# 27

10. Security correctness checks should be included which of the following activities?

A. Audits
B. Deployment
C. Inspections
D. Testing
E. a, b, c

# 28

8. In cleanroom software engineering the structured programming approach is used to

A. refine data design
B. refine function design
C. refine usage test cases
D. both a and b

# 29

1. Which of these are valid software configuration items?

A. case tools
B. documentation
C. executable programs
D. test data
E. All of the above.

4. Which configuration objects would not typically be found in the project database?

A. design specification
B. marketing data
C. organizational structure description
D. test plans
E. b and c

6. A data repository meta model is used to determine how

A. information is stored in the repository
B. well data integrity can be maintained
C. easily the existing model can be extended
D. all of the above

15. Configuration issues that need to be considered when developing Web and Mobile Apps include:

A. content
B. cost
C. people
D. politics
E. a, b, c

# 30

9. Architectural design metrics focus on

A. architectural structure
B. data structural relationships
C. internal module complexity
D. module effectiveness
E. a and d

14. Component-level metrics include measures of

A. complexity
B. coupling
C. module cohesion
D. performance
E. a, b, c

18. Halstead's source code metrics are based on the number of

A. modules in the program
B. operands in the program
C. operators in the program
D. volume elements in the program
E. b and c

19. Software testing metrics fall into two broad categories

A. metrics that focus on defect removal effectiveness
B. metrics that focus on test coverage
C. metrics that estimate the duration of the testing process
D. metrics that predict the number of test cases required
E. b and d

# 31

9. Which factors should be considered in choosing the organizational structure for a software team?

A. degree of communication desired
B. predicted size of the resulting program
C. rigidity of the delivery date
D. size of the project budget
E. a, b, c

14. The major areas of problem decomposition during the project scoping activity are the

A. customer workflow
B. functionality to be delivered
C. process used to deliver functionality
D. software process model
E. b and c

17. How does a software project manager need to act to minimize the risk of software failure?

A. double the project team size
B. request a large budget
C. start on the right foot
D. track progress
E. c and d

18. The W5HH principle contains which of the following questions?

A. Why is the system being developed?
B. What will be done by whom?
C. Where are they organizationally located?
D. How much of each resource is required?
E. a, c d

19. Which of these are critical practices for performance-based project management?

A. assessing product usability
B. defect tracking against quality targets
C. empirical cost estimation
D. formal risk management
E. b, c, d

# 32

1. Which of these are valid reasons for measuring software processes, products, and resources?

A. to characterize them
B. to evaluate them
C. to price them
D. to improve them
E. a, b, d

3. Public metrics are used

A. to evaluate the performance of software development teams.
B. to appraise the performance of individual team members.
C. to make strategic changes to the software process.
D. to make tactical changes during a software project.
E. c and d

16. To be an effective aid in process improvement the baseline data used must be:

A. based on reasonable guestimates from past projects
B. measured consistently across projects
C. drawn from similar projects
D. based on all previously completed projects
E. b and c

# 33

3. The project scope is defined as a means of bounding the system

A. functionality
B. performance
C. costs
D. schedule
E. a and b

6. Reusable software components must be

A. catalogued for easy reference.
B. standardized for easy application.
C. validated for easy integration.
D. all of the above

7. The software engineering environment (SEE) consists of which of the following?

A. customers
B. developers
C. hardware platforms
D. software tools
E. c and d

8. Software project estimation techniques can be broadly classified under which of the following headings?

A. automated processes
B. decomposition techniques
C. empirical models
D. regression models
E. b and c

10. Problem-based estimation is based on problem decomposition which focuses on

A. information domain values
B. project schedule
C. software functions
D. process activities
E. a and c

13. Process-based estimation techniques require problem decomposition based on

A. information domain values
B. project schedule
C. software functions
D. process activities
E. c and d

17. COCOMO II is an example of a suite of modern empirical estimation models that require sizing information expressed as:

A. function points
B. lines of code
C. object points
D. any of the above

# 34

8. The task (activity) network is a useful mechanism for

A. computing the overall effort estimate
B. detecting intertask dependencies
C. determining the critical path
D. specifying the task set to the customer
E. b and c

10. Two tools for computing critical path and project completion times from activity networks are

A. CPM
B. DRE
C. FP
D. PERT
E. a and d

# 35

5. A risk item checklist would contain known and predictable risks from which of these categories?

A. product size
B. development environment
C. staff size
D. process definition
E. all of the above

6. Questions that should be asked to assess the overall project risk include:

A. Have top managers formally committed to support the project?
B. Are end-users committed to the project and proposed system being built?
C. Are requirement fully understood by development team and customers?
D. Does the proposed budget have time allocated for marketing?
E. a, b, c

13. Effective risk management plan needs to address which of these issues?

A. risk avoidance
B. risk monitoring
C. contingency planning
D. all of the above

# 36

7. Software reengineering process model includes restructuring activities for which of the following work items?

A. code
B. documentation
C. data
D. all of the above

12. Which of these benefits can be achieved when software is restructured?

A. higher quality programs
B. reduced maintenance effort
C. software easier to test
D. all of the above